I did two things that terrified me a little today.

Generally, "terrifying" is a term that evokes images of throwing oneself from an airplane, speaking in front of a large audience, upgrading your Mac OS before you know if it works with your version of PhotoShop, et cetera. My thing is probably far less daunting than any of those to the normal observer, "normal" being, of course, the most relative term ever.

I was driving on a quiet street that I've driven many times before. And similar to previous treks on this route, I spotted a homeless person with a big pack of blankets and supplies, and a handwritten cardboard sign. This person had two dogs (looked like Rottweilers), and his sign said, "Dogs and I are hungry, anything helps." My first thought: "Good for you on the grammar, guy!” Forcing my thoughts a little wider over the next few seconds, I pondered what kind of diet those dogs must have. Probably not ideal, as they likely get whatever people-food leftovers the man has available. That couldn't be good on their long term health.

(I should mention here that, at the time, I was on my way to a local pet store to buy the standard $100 worth of premium grain-free kibble, dried chicken made only in the USA, and sweet potato chewies for my own two very well cared-for fur babies.)

As I passed the man and his dogs, my internal conversation turned to solving the riddle of what kind of diet is best for dogs wandering with a homeless person. Taking into consideration the special circumstances, what kind of food would be best for them to purchase? Canned, kibble, other? Ease of carrying, packaging size and nutrition content are all important factors. And then in my infinite wisdom and five second internal monologue I solved it: freeze dried food! It's light as a feather since the moisture has been sucked out, so it's easy to carry. It's usually in a re-sealable bag that even rain can't compromise. It's got great nutritional value. All they need is a little water to add, and blammo! Instant, nutritious doggie meal. Why hasn't anyone thought of this?

And then I realized, I've never seen a homeless person walk into a PetSmart to lay down the $10 (for instance) they collected all day for dog food, and I guarantee $10 (for instance) wouldn't cover the bill for premium-priced freeze dried food anyway. Plus I'm not sure I've ever seen a homeless person walk into a PetSmart, period.

Well, dangit…

At the pet store, just in case I was brave enough to do something that I was pretty sure I wasn't, I purchased a small bag of freeze dried chicken (they didn't carry the food I was thinking of, so this was a reasonable runner-up), in addition to the other goodies I was taking home. I tried to talk myself out of it at least five times. Well, those dogs looked pretty fat. They're probably fine. I'd rather donate via a more holistic route, so that more homeless people benefit overall. What if the guy comes at me? I'm alone. He's probably got treats galore from other people already. And more ridiculous, petty thoughts, one after another, as I paid for my items. (And left a $5 donation to pet adoption at the register, as one does.)

I drove back home the way I came, keeping an eye out for the man and his dogs. I was torn between the hope that he would be gone, and the need to effectively beat down my "play it safe” default reaction. I tried to talk myself out of it at least five times. Well, if I missed the turn here, I might as well just head home. Maybe he's not even there anymore, I should just go home. It's really not safe, I should just take my freeze dried chicken home and let my pups have it. I'm an adult, stop bossing me. It would be so easy to not do it.

I saw him on my left. My hands were shaking. (Astute readers may have guessed by now that I don't frequently interact with the homeless population directly.) I turned left onto the next street, and turned around, so that I'd be on his side of the street. He was walking with his dogs on the sidewalk now — within tossing distance! What's the protocol? Do I toss the bag? Hand it? I don't have to get out of the car, do I? Would it be rude?

There was no turning back now! I pulled to the side of the street quickly, and opened the passenger window. Panicked, but one hundred percent committed to this endeavor, I grabbed the bag of freeze dried chicken. The man told his dogs to stay, and he approached the window. I stuck my arm out, thrust the bag (with $10 tucked in) in his direction, and blurted, pointing at the bag, "That's for the dogs!” in what I imagine was probably a bit of an unnecessarily wide-eyed, urgent manner. He blinked, smiled and said, "You mean it's not for me?" I was not in a state to detect or react to humor at this point, so I sputtered "The money is for you!", hoping he understood that I was looking out for the dogs and him. (I had briefly considered bringing him a Baja Fresh Burrito but thought it kind of presumptuous since I didn't know what ingredients he preferred in burritos). He laughed and told me he was kidding, and said, "Thank you very much," and walked off with his dogs.

Exhalation, exhilaration, relief.

As silly as this all sounds, the fact is that I did something that made me uncomfortable today, to help someone else. And then that thing made me smile, and it made someone else smile (and I imagine the dogs are smiling now too), and that made me more likely to take a leap of discomfort again.

What was the second thing that terrified me a little today? Posting my first story for all the world to see. Voila. :) Now I'm going to have a glass of wine, as today has been a very productive day.