2 Minutes on How to Win Friends and Influence People

I just (finally) read the iconic book by Dale Carnegie, "How to Win Friends and Influence People". I should have read this many years ago, but alas, the title always seemed kind of smarmy to me and turned me off. Having read it, I would revise the smarmy sentiment, as I did find considerable value in the various recommended actions (along with some eyebrow-raising historical social references). Anyway, here is my turbo review:

I think there are some salient points in this book that everyone should be reminded of from time to time — many of which I do strive to practice in work and personal life. They are good stuff. Be nice, offer productive insights rather than criticisms, and fight the urge to let your (potentially) more damaging emotions get the better of you when interacting with people. Be the better "man". Overly simplified, but those are my favorite takeaways. They truly can serve you well in your interactions with other humans — if you are using them for the right reasons. They make you aware of your emotions and reactions, encourage you to take a time out if you need it before exploding about something silly (especially in the electronic communication world of today), and reflect on the potential outcomes of reacting one way versus another.

But: it's important to note that the tactics discussed in this book are put forth so that you can *manipulate people to do what you want*, either in friendship or business (the title isn't being coy). There's a delicate balance between acting in a positive way because it's the right thing to do, and doing it just to get your way. I am fully on-board with the former, and wary of the latter (and skeptical of those who employ it insincerely, which I'm sure we all see way too much). So, take it with a grain of salt and apply it with good will.

This book was written in the 30s -- prepare to be mildly offended. There are some historical anecdotes that are pretty cringeworthy. For instance, one of the examples outlines a former president buttering up his secretary by telling her that her dress is nice, and that she's a very attractive girl. While I thought the next sentence would certainly get into the inappropriateness of this situation in and of itself, in actuality the author praised it as "obvious" action to softening the attitude of the recipient before reprimanding her on her bad punctuation. In essence, "flatter before criticizing to make someone more receptive". There are other examples scattered throughout. The lessons threaten to lose their meaning via these examples when you realize the author clearly has a dramatically different understanding of certain social constructs — at the very least, they introduce a little doubt as to the overall trustworthiness of the work. But in my opinion, they don't completely detract from some of the basic common sense approaches. Just be ready for the land mines.

Overall, a read-worthy book for sure. Use your learned powers for good and not evil :) What do you think about the book?